>> Bianca Gandolfo: Our task is to
loop through the suspects array.
>> Speaker 2: So I named a function, foo.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm,
okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Like that?
>> Speaker 2: Yep, brackets.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: Set up a for loop, so for
(let i = 0;
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: i < game.length;
i++).
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Great.
What does this kind of loop do?
>> Speaker 2: It's going to
advance through the members of the array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What does this mean
right here?
>> Speaker 2: It declares the sort of
iterative variable.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: And starts it at 0.
>> Speaker 2: And then will go through
the number of the members of array as
specified by the length of the array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so while
this is true, it will increment by one.
>> Speaker 2: That's right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
why did you choose this kind of loop?
>> Speaker 2: Because,
don't really necessarily know
the number of the members in advance.
So if you added any, it would be dynamic
based on it's length, basically.
So if you ever add in members to
the array it would still be workable.
So, console.log
>> Speaker 2: (game[i]);
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What do we think?
Is it gonna work?
>> Speaker 2: I think it's gonna log
suspects when we do call function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You think it's
gonna log suspects?
>> Speaker 2: We didn't call the function
there.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
we didn't call the function.
That's a problem.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
then when we call it, we're going to
loop through, and you think it's going
to call suspects, why?
>> Speaker 2: I was
just playing around with it and I think
that's what happened to me, but I think,
yeah, at that first level
of the game object,
the only thing it has is this
object suspects, which is in array.
So, at that level of like game.whatever,
there's only suspects.
So, there should be a length of just one,
and
it will return that array of objects.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Got it.
I see what you're saying, but it's an
object, so object doesn't have a length.
So that's a problem.
For the very first time that
this loops runs, what is i?
How about checkered flag?
>> Speaker 2: i is,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [LAUGH] Probably
gonna, I was like.
>> Speaker 2: The object,
the game of object itself.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Where are we saying
that i is the game object?
What line?
>> Speaker 2: It'd be
>> Speaker 2: 14, because, yeah, 15,
console.log(game[i]), and
at that point, i is,
>> Speaker 2: Actually, i is, game.length
is going to be
>> Bianca Gandolfo: If you said type of i,
what do you think it is supposed to be?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: A number.
Do you see where we're
assigning it to a number?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
in line 14 where you're saying let i = 0.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 3: 0 is the starting iteration
number.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
at this line this is where we are defining
i, and we're starting it out at zero.
So in the very first
loop what do you think i
is?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Well we're setting it.
I.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, I'm sorry.
It's 0.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Zero.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
So i is 0 on the very first loop, so
then is i less than game.length.?
>> Speaker 2: So
is game.length undefined or is it zero?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I
think it's undefined.
>> Speaker 2: So, [COUGH] we could fix it
by game.suspects.length.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And that-
>> Speaker 2: And that will have a length
then because it's an array, not an object.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, and then game.i,
right?
So i is 0,
we can kind of replace it like that.
What is game at 0?
>> Speaker 2: Game at 0 should-
>> Speaker 3: Shouldn't it be
game.suspects?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm,
because there is no games at 0.
Perfect.
Any questions about that and
how that works?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
this is a little tricky.
It's like one of those
easy things that people
give magic to, and really it's telling
you everything that it's doing.
So we're defining where our
start variable is, right?
We're giving it a condition, while this
condition is true, and then every loop,
do a thing, right, and
it's gonna increment.
You can increment it multiple times or
whatever.
So there isn't anything
magic happening here.
We use them a lot with arrays.
>> Speaker 2: Someone in the chat
rooms getting fancy with for each.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Nice.
We'll get there in the next-
>> Speaker 2: Get there?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: Or game?
Is it a fair game to also use map?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
You could use map if you
wanna return an array.
Yeah, we're gonna, in the next slides
after this, we do each in map, yeah.
Awesome.
So where was I?
Yeah, so there's no magic here.
Why do we use this kind of
loop with an array, and
would you use this with an object?
>> Speaker 2: Well with an array,
arrays have numerical values
associated with them.
So they map well onto
the way this literates.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep,
exactly, and that's it.
So this loop has really nothing
to do with arrays, we have a for
end loop, right,
which is actually for objects.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Which has
a special relationship, but
this for loop is just doing math.
It's very straightforward.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
any questions?
>> Speaker 2: Could you also use brackets?
So it would be game.["suspects"].length?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
you could also do that.
I don't recommend using brackets
when you don't have to.
I use it in my examples just to remind
you that that's a thing that exists,
but in general if you can do a dot,
it saves you four or so keystrokes.
I think that’s best, and
we have to use brackets here, why?
>> Speaker 2: Me?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: Because.
>> Speaker 2: All because,
I guess you can use a dot if key
was like a property on the object,
which in this case it's
not a property of it,
it's just like a variable.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep.
What's the giveaway that it's a variable?
>> Speaker 2: Let?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
let.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, and
you can leave this off to be honest,
but that's the giveaway, and
you could change this
>> Bianca Gandolfo: To whatever you want.
It's just a variable name.
I like to show that by
just calling it pickly,
that's what it's gonna be.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It
just needs to match, awesome.